---
layout: post
title: **What is Object Oriented Programming?**
---



OOP is a programming paradigm. Not all languages support OOP, but most major languages do at this point.  It exploits the idea that sometimes a computer programmer might want to code a “thing.”  Let’s call that thing an object.  That object might need to exist more than once, so why bother explaining it more than once?  An “object” in this context, is a collection of data, functions, and logic that ties a single idea together.  When an object is created, the blueprints for making that object is consulted, and some initial configurations might need to be set.  These blueprints are called a class, and creating an object from this class is considered an instance of the object. Each class has a constructor, the function that runs by default when an object is created.


    * A class can be thought of as the blueprints for an object. It contains all the data structures, logic, and functions associated with creating that object.
    *An object is an instance of the thing you can make with the blueprint. You can make multiple objects from the same blueprints, obviously.
    *Methods are simply the functions that a class has. They are sometimes also called subroutines.
    *The concept of inheritance should be taken quite literally. It is the idea that one class can extend the definition of another. A trout might inherit a more generic “fish” class, which it can use to build from.
    *Programmers will often try to isolate specific ideas and functions from one another, in a concept known as abstraction. *This is thought of as an ideal in computer science, which makes code more accessible for others to manipulate.
    *Polymorphism is a feature built in to programming languages that allows one type of variable to appear as, and be treated like, another type.
    *A constructor is the function in a class that runs by default when an object is created.
    
    
    
